*tandem.txt*  Pause participating agent edits until save

SETUP                                                     *tandem-setup*

Requires Neovim 0.10+, Unix, and the matching protocol v2 Tandem CLI on PATH.
Multiple Neovim processes may connect to one project. Protocol v1 is unsupported;
CLI package version 0.2.0 alone does not identify protocol compatibility.
Call require('tandem').setup({}) once per editor. One project/editor at a time.
The daemon starts automatically. Configure agents to use its MCP or CLI gateway.
Native agent tools and shell writes are not intercepted automatically.

COMMANDS                                                  *tandem-commands*

:TandemStatus       Show local status plus asynchronously fetched daemon leases.
:TandemRecover      Review and release a disconnected owner after confirmation.
:TandemReconnect    Reconnect without dropping unsaved-file leases.
:checkhealth tandem Check the connection and supported environment.

LUA                                                       *tandem-lua*

require('tandem').setup({command = 'tandem', reconnect_ms = 1000})
require('tandem').status()      Returns connected, owner, root, dirty, error.
require('tandem').statusline()  Optional statusline component.

require('tandem').codex_args({cwd = project, read_only = false})
    Returns protected Codex arguments, or nil, error. Append them after other
    launch overrides. Native writes remain read-only; edit sessions use Tandem.
    Existing developer instructions are read through codex app-server and
    preserved before adding mode-specific routing guidance (5 second timeout).
    Restart Codex sessions after updating the plugin.

Optional codex_args fields:
    path                    Validate a target path within the attached project.
    codex_command           Codex executable to query (default: 'codex').
    developer_instructions  Host's complete effective instruction string; skips
                            the config lookup when supplied. Required to
                            preserve host CLI profile/instruction overrides.
                            An empty string explicitly means no custom text.
    read_only               Analysis mode: hide the writer and prohibit edits.

Use the same cwd, environment and executable for lookup and launch. Configuration
lookup failures abort launch; check Codex installation/configuration. For missing
Tandem tools or a disconnected editor, use :TandemStatus or :TandemReconnect.
Do not enable native writes as a recovery step.

Optional setup fields: root, state_home. Defaults use git root/cwd and XDG state.
Changing cwd after setup does not change the attached root.
User TandemStatus is emitted on connection/lease changes.

RECOVERY                                                  *tandem-recovery*

Save, reload or undo to saved contents releases a file only when the buffer is
unmodified and matches disk. Clearing 'modified' alone does not release a claim.
Failed saves and later formatter edits remain protected.

Discarding a buffer with :bd! releases claims after its text is unloaded. Closing
a window/tab or hiding a dirty buffer does not discard its text. Renaming keeps
claims for unsaved work at the old path, even if that path is reopened separately.

Normal exit flushes pending saves and intentional discards, including :q!/:qa!
when they actually exit. Delivery and verification share a one-second deadline.
Abnormal exit or failed delivery leaves unresolved claims for recovery. Reconnect
keeps the same owner; a new process cannot save away the old owner's leases.

:TandemRecover lists disconnected owners and affected files. Recover or
deliberately discard the old work first, then select its owner and confirm.
Cancel is the default in both dialogs. Ownership and files are checked again
before release; changes require fresh review. The connected owner is excluded,
and the CLI rejects release if that owner reconnects before the request.

The result reports remaining blockers. Recovery releases leases, not buffer
contents. Status/release requests use the configured command, root and state_home
with a five-second timeout per request. There is no automatic crash recovery or
lease expiry, and no agent-accessible recovery tool.

After connection, a retained owner is reported once per Neovim session.
:TandemStatus includes daemon leases; require('tandem').status() remains
synchronous and retains its existing fields.

Manual recovery is also available with tandem release --owner OWNER after
reviewing tandem status. Never delete leases.json. Requires matching CLI/editor
protocol v2; restart Neovim after updating the plugin.

MULTIPLE EDITORS                                           *tandem-multi-editor*

Each process keeps independent buffers and normal save/conflict behavior. Agent
operations wait for every reported dirty claim; each editor releases only its own.
Writes prefer the oldest connection with the file loaded, otherwise the oldest
connection. Hidden loaded buffers count. Focus does not affect routing.

Peer saves request normal file-change checks, respecting autoread and
FileChangedShell. Dirty drafts are preserved. Typing in another process may race
an already dispatched write before its claim arrives; this is not an atomic
all-editor cleanliness check.

Daemon status uses an editors array. The synchronous status() Lua API still
describes the current editor and keeps its existing fields.

UPGRADING                                                 *tandem-upgrade*

Use the matching CLI revision pinned by this plugin's CI. Finish agent operations,
save or recover work, and record this project's daemon PID from tandem status.
Close participating agents and Neovim sessions; install the matching CLI/plugin.
Verify the PID still identifies that project daemon, then stop it with SIGTERM.
Keep leases.json and the state directory. Reopen Neovim to start the v2 daemon.
Confirm protocol 2, the expected editors and no fault, then restart agents.

:TandemReconnect restarts the bridge, not an old daemon. Review retained claims
with :TandemRecover only after recovering or deliberately discarding the work.

 vim:tw=78:ts=8:noet:ft=help:norl:
